Namaste!
The Crystal Maze was a fun TV program. A fun
adventurous TV program. In that, half a dozen
people will be led through many adventurous
mazes where they will earn crystals, and using
those crystals they have to collect some tickets.
Watch this!
They have five crystals, here. That means
twenty-five seconds inside the Crystal Dome.
You have to collect the gold tokens — which
will be added to the total. And you should
NOT collect the silver tokens — which will
be DEDUCTED from the total! The powerful fan
blows everything up into the air. As the time
counts down, they have to collect it all in
a hurry… Very famous, very popular game,
called The Crystal Maze!
So, gold will give you PLUS points, and silver,
they will deduct. Up in the air, like pieces
of paper. You have to collect them… What
will be your strategy?! How will you approach
this?
Think about it! Silver minus. Gold plus. This
is where we face the dilemma between efficiency
and effectiveness. The tussle that happens.
What is efficiency? Finetuning the “how
will we do it” to the best possible approach.
What is effectiveness? What is our end goal?
What are we trying to achieve? Wondering and
thinking about that deeply. Have we identified
that end goal properly? Deliberating on this
topic is what effectiveness is all about.
Which is why… they keep talking about the
crucial difference between doing things right
versus doing the right things! A robot, for
example, will do it very correctly! But, a
human being? The assumption is the human has
the ability to discern whether they are doing
the right thing in the first place. Efficiency
versus Effectiveness.
Take a look at this cartoon. Even if the tortoise
is going slowly, it is going in the correct
direction! But the hare… even though he
has a motor boat that will travel a hundred
times faster, what is the use traveling in
the opposite direction?!
There is this book called The Day of the Jackal.
One of the best books, even today, that describes
the “anatomy” of a long-distance shooter,
a sniper. The story. The plot. Described so
beautifully. Two seconds. Just two seconds.
From the gun to the body of the person the
bullet has planned to assassinate… It takes
just two seconds. Two to three seconds. Throughout
the book, though, the whole discussion is
about the last gunshot in the last page of
the book. But… the buildup… What are the
things that go into the barrel of the gun…
What are the things he does to aim and train…
He takes into account the velocity of the
wind, he checks the lubrication, he makes
a small notch in the nose of the bullet, a
thousand little things… that go into the
planning. That is what makes it EFFECTIVE.
There is this book by Stephen Covey. Titled
“The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People”
(Not highly efficient people!) The seventh
habit in that book? Sharpen the saw! It must
have probably evolved from this original quotation
from Abraham Lincoln. If you’ve been given
just six hours to chop down a tree, then,
I would spend a full four hours just in sharpening
the axe, he is supposed to have said! Why?
If I have a sharp enough axe, I can chop off
a tree in a matter of minutes. That is the
kind of confidence the person gets. Again,
effectiveness is more important than efficiency.
What you choose to do is probably more important
than how you end up doing it.
And so, if a little girl, perhaps your daughter,
perhaps your sister, perhaps somebody who
is working with you in your team, whoever
she may be, if she is at a window, idly staring
away into the faraway nothingness, don’t
jump to a conclusion there, right there…
Don’t say, “You are wasting your time”.
She could be J K Rowling. Thinking about her
next amazing Harry Potter story. She could
be Kalpana Chawla. Dreaming about the stars.
How do I fly to the neighbouring planet! She
could be that! So, she could be sharpening
her saw! That is why, we saw a while ago,
about “metrics”. What are you going to
measure? That is a very important question
to get an answer for. No point measuring how
long you’ve been staring at a computer,
typing at the keyboard, if you haven’t been
sharpening your saw! Thank you!